>> Steve Kinney: But like they all have an
a property, what's the difference, right?
Clearly, if we think about what happened
when we tried to delete points properties
from the point class, we think about what
happens when we get different objects.
We can definitely measure that there is
some amount of difference that happens.
And it doesn't really make any sense
because why would one of these be faster
than the other, if only they were slides.
>> Steve Kinney: So
it turns out that there
is a type system in V8.
There's not in JavaScript,
but there's one in V8.
We had suspicions of that when we
saw the strings and the numbers,
our suspicions have been confirmed.
Yeah, numbers and strings,
it keeps track of those, cool, but
clearly there's something
involving objects as well, right.
And the terminology we use is the morphism
of that object, right?
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, everyone's back,
everyone's here again, cool.
And so we can say that in the case that
a function could be monomorphic, right.
Remember where we passed a whole bunch
of objects that only had an A property,
that A property was a number.
Monomorphic, it's the same
thing every time.
There's polymorphic, which is I see
many things or see a few things.
Sometimes there's a B on it, sometimes
there's a C, it's generally the same.
I've seen it just a subset of things,
I can basically go in this case,
I'm gonna optimize here.
In this other case I'm gonna
optimize there, I'll figure it out.
And then finally there's megamorphism,
which is a whole bunch
of different things.
I don't know what's happening,
I don't know what to expect.
I'm not gonna optimize this situation,
right.
You can take a lucky guess on like,
where you wanna be on this spectrum of,
I'm highly optimized for
one kinda thing, mostly optimized for
a few kinds of things are not optimized,
right.
You can take a lucky guess on
where you wanna be in that case.
This is not just for objects,
like the plus operator we saw before.
Behaves way differently than it would,
when we always got numbers
there's a lot of things.
Generally speaking,
the more consistent stuff is,
the more speculative optimizations
can be done, the faster your code is.
So yeah, here's the summary again,
monomorphic.
This is all I know, I've seen this
type of object a million times.
I'm ready, I know what to do,
this is my thing.
Polymorphic is basically,
I've seen a few different ones,
all right,
it's effectively a switch statement.
Okay, if it's this kinda thing, do this.
If it's this other kind of thing,
do the other thing, right.
And you can do a few of those,
that's not free, that switch statement.
And if the switch
statement gets too large,
it's like not worth it anymore, right.
All of a sudden it's like,
we've all written the code,
where you can put a conditional inside
a conditional, inside a conditional,
inside a conditional, but
eventually that becomes untenable, right.
Maybe you're all better programmers
than me and haven't done that.
So we know that doesn't really scale.
So eventually it gives up and
I've seen a lot of things.
I'm not specialized in any of them,
I'm just gonna do the normal thing, right.
The closer we can stay to monomorphic,
the better we get.
But that's neat advice,
but that's not actionable,
how does any of this work, right?
So we'll kind of explore
that a little bit.
So we ask question of,
how does the browser figure
out the type of something is?
And what we'll do is, we're gonna
go back to more a few experiments.
We're gonna take a look at another one of
those like special hidden functions that
can basically say like,
are you two the same, right?
In Chrome it's called something
different in each one,
in one of the browsers, the shape.
Chrome calls them hidden classes or
maps internally.
There's a whole bunch
of different names but
most of the engines have
some concept of this, right.
It's a way of keeping track what type
something is in a completely untyped
language.